aws
-----
5/11/2023
agenda
--
history of aws?
what is iam?
iam features?
key terminology for iam?
hands-on?

iam(identity access management)
------------------------
iam is a web service that helps you securely
 control acess to awas ressources  for your users.
1.iam allows you to mange users and theire level of access to the aws consoe
2.it is important to understand iam and how it works
3.both for the exam and for administrating a 
company's aws account in real life.

features:
----------
1.centrailzed control of your aws account
2.shred access to your aws account
3.granular permissions
4.multifactor authentication
5.allows you to set up your own password rotation policy
6.integrates with many different aws services

key terminology for iam
-------------
users :
using iam ,you can create and mange aws users and use permissions toallow and densy
their access to aws resources .end users such as 
pepople ,employess of an organization etc

groups:
a collectio of users.each user in the group will
inherit the permissions of the group.

policies:
policies are made up of documents called policy documents
.these documents are in a format called json and they g
they give permissions as to what a user/group/rle is able to do.

Roles:
an iam role is an iam entity that defines a set
of perimissions for making aws service requests.
Iam roles are not associated with a specific user
or group.
instead a trusted entities assume roles,such as iam 
users,application ,or aws services such as ec2 ,you create
roles and then assign them to aws resources.


     policy         user(u1,u2)   policy(set of permissions)


ec2services ------role----- s3service

role:it creates trust relationship between two or
 more services

important points:
--------
iam is universal .it does not apply to region at this time
1.the "root account" is simply the account created 
when frist setup your aws account.it has complete admin access.

2.new users have no permissions when frist created.

3.for all users(besides the root user),
permissions must be given that grant access to aws services

4.new users are assignded access key id 
$ secreat access keys when first created.

5.these are not the same as a password.you cannot
use the access key id$ secreat access key to login
in the console.you can use this to access aws via
the apis and command line ,however.

6.you only get to view these once.if you lose them
,you have to regenerate them.so save them in a secure location.

7.always setup multifactor authentication on your foot account
8.you can create and customize your own password
rotation polices.


aws free tier account link












